# CI/CD

Semaphore supports `build` and `deploy` tasks. 

Semaphore passes `semaphore_vars` variable to each Ansible playbook which it runs.

You can use it in your Ansible tasks to get what type of task is run, which version should be build or deployed, who run the task, etc.

Example of `semaphore_vars` for `build` tasks:

```yaml
semaphore_vars:
    task_details:
        type: build
        username: user123
        message: New verion of some feature
        target_version: 1.5.33
```

Example of `semaphore_vars` for `deploy` tasks:

```yaml
semaphore_vars:
    task_details:
        type: deploy
        username: user123
        message: Deploy new feature to servers
        incoming_version: 1.5.33
```

### Build

This type of task is used to create [artifacts](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artifact\_\(software\_development\)). Each build task has autogenerated version. You should use variable `semaphore_vars.task_details.target_version` in your Ansible playbook to get what version of the artifact should be created. After the artifact is created, it can be used for deployment.

{% hint style="info" %}
Example of `build` Ansible role:

1. Get app source code from GitHub
2. Compile source code
3. Pack result binary to tarball with name `app-{{semaphore_vars.task_details.target_version}}.tar.gz`
4. Send `app-{{semaphore_vars.task_details.target_version}}.tar.gz` to S3 bucket
{% endhint %}

### Deploy

This type of task is used to deploy artifacts to destination servers. Each deployment task is associated with the build task. You should use variable `semaphore_vars.task_details.incoming_version` in your Ansible playbook to get what version of the artifact should be deployed.

{% hint style="info" %}
Example of `deploy` Ansible role:

1. Download `app-{{semaphore_vars.task_details.incoming_version}}.tar.gz` from S3 bucket to destination servers
2. Unpack `app-{{semaphore_vars.task_details.incoming_version}}.tar.gz` to destination directory
3. Create or update configuration files
4. Restart app service
{% endhint %}

